# Section 1 

## Part one

Hello everyone my name is Andrez De La Torre majoring in Computer Science to become a Software Engineer. This is my second attempt in college but switching majors I first started after high school in 2019 major in Music. But when the pandemic happened I had to quit school to focus on help my family through hard times but I always wanted to finish school and get a career.  Now I'm returning with this being now my second year hopefully transferring to University of the Pacific next fall continuing in Computer Science with minoring in Music performing. I did this past Spring complete my Certification of Completion for Programming Specialist which in titled taking all the difficult classes of Computer Science first but even with struggle I made it out with completing it with honors and  making the President's List in fall of 2025. I continue my study and practice of programming a lot outside of school focusing in the realm of Software Engineering in Devops, AI and Cyber security. 

## Part two

I take notes differently of a hybrid setup in physical and digital notes. Now when it comes to reading and annotating I prefer to highlight and write in the margins and sticky notes.  But my main notes are on the digital side using two program called Obsidian.  I use obsidian of taking my full notes for example in this class i'm going to keep a folder of each week and a page for each passage of things I highlight or comment to refer back. But the great thing about this tool is how you take notes like how our brains work. In the picture you can see a graph view of connections where my notes talk to each other. So you can see when I type my vocabulary they are in their own page they are color orange and if when I'm writing them in my notes for the passage if it's a word I do not know or understand I link the pages together to reference the word quickly instead of looking up the definition.

One major concept that authors all convey is how people use the word Latinx incorrectly and how they treat them Latin America.

Reading from the comics of Terry Bias he brought out examples in a nice way to make the change comfortable. But Alan Palaez Lopez brings up the struggle and hardship of using the "x" in Latinx as a general word for all of Latin Americans who aren't accepted. He want it to be a representation of the history of how much they are misunderstood and not seen correctly but people are using the word to make it seem like they have been around just didn't have a name for it.

## Part three 

Based on this weeks reading currently my relationship with the Latinx is a word that is used for Latin Americans that are not gender specific but is also a symbol of the struggle they went through to be accepted. I will be more aware of people who go by Latinx are normal people but they fought to be accepted and not be forgotten of what it took. If I ever give a speech and use the word I will bring up the reason of why they call them selves that because it's not just a word. It's something I learned from this class and think of them the same as anyone else who work hard for themselves to get where they are at. 

It's really hard for me to be comfortable to identify my self for both sides of my culture. I am the only one in my family who has not gone the traditional route of drinking, partying and working in labor hard job. Growing up the one thing that really describes me was playing music especially percussion and yes my family loves music but no one wanted to hear music in their house. They didn't like hearing me practice in the house or do events that involved outside of school because it was seen not necessary. Only until in high school was when things changed where I would see only one person in the audience which was my mother because up to this point she was the only one attending my concerts and I knew that she sees why I enjoyed it and supported me. The hard part was always being made fun of at parties from drunk family mocking me with the song of how they played. But thanks to my mother I do it for her and show her that it's always going to be taken and never forgotten to pursuing it professionally. Now I can't because i'm focusing on trying to build a career in tech which is something I love as well and even that my family doesn't understand. This is very recent happening again my family is looking at this as a time waster because they say what's the point in doing school if it takes so much time to achieve something. They just point out to me that I just need to quit it and just work hard to barely make it. That is hard for me to accept because I never liked to be told my passion is wasted because I enjoy it so much and makes me want to prove them wrong. I already am showing them they are wrong with having clients of building websites for local businesses and working in a part time job as a IT Specialist. Now I work on my own projects outside of class and work with continues learning to give my self not just a better chance but knowledge to grow and do my own digital products that people can use and pay service for. 

I hope to answer the question why is our community so hard to not just accept change but they mock people who are not considered normal to them. Also how do cultures see Latinx now if there has been change or is there still a rise in conflicts of accepting them.

# Section two

## Part one

I have experienced a time of racism of when I was working as a delivery driver for Amazon. This was a time where because I was darker skin in the back roads where it was mostly farms I had a problem with my phone that it took me through the backyard of someones house but I was following the map. This lead to when I stepped out of the vehicle and had my back turned to grab the package I heard the customer scream at me while pointing a gun not more than five feet away from me. I was trying to explain that I was just following my map instructions but instead he was yelling at me that why does Amazon hire my kind of people. This experience made me want to quit and leave back home but I couldn't since I still had a lot of stops. There rest of the day I was very careful and watching my area from following the map. While this happens a lot to other drivers the fear I had in me when I seen the gun and was treated terrible just because how I look and doing my job. I did stop accepting taking any routes that are delivering when the sun is not out because I know if I get in that situation again in the dark the situation would have been worse.

## Part two

One privilege that I have everyday I mentioned earlier is my education I have access to now compared to my mother. My mother had to learn English on her own because when she came to the states she started in middle school and she couldn't finish her education because it was to difficult. Now I have access to education since I was little and I never understood at first why my mother would make me focus school than anything else but it's because she didn't want me to struggle like how she did. Now school is part of me in making my mother proud and show her that the hard work she had to do for us to live is not taken from granted and I give her every award and degree I receive to her because I want her to know I do it all for her for supporting me when no one else couldn't. 

## Part three

Comparing the two I know that what I experienced from the job is not as much as what my mother went through. I know that she was seeing racism everyday because of her difficult of just knowing English. Now I have been in school where seeing others like me with mix of other people is normal and I can only think how hard it was for my mother to just make even one friend in school. Now what I see the acceptance of jobs like in tech are accepting my culture because it was before a more white color only job. Since my family is mainly seen to be working in the fields or construction I want to set example to my kids in the future or nieces and nephews we don't have to settle but we can be what ever we want by doing the same amount of hard work everyone in our family does to make things happen.  